                                          Python Interview questions - data types
                                          
                                                Descriptive Type Question

>> What are Data Types?
A data type is a set of values and a set of operations defined on data. An implementation of a data type is an expression of data and operations 
in terms of a specific programming language such as Java, C ++, or Python.

>> Name four of the main data types in Python
Numbers, strings, lists, dictionaries, tuples, files, and sets are generally considered the main types of data. Types, None, and Booleans are 
sometimes also classified this way. The integer, floating-point, complex, fraction and decimal are numerical data types and simple strings and 
Unicode strings in Python 2 and text strings and byte strings in Python 3 are the types of string data types.

>> Why are these data types known as Python’s core data types?
They are known as the core data types because they are part of the Python language itself and are always available to create other objects, you 
usually need to call functions in imported modules. Most of the data types have a specific syntax for generating objects: “spam”, for example, 
is an expression that creates a string and determines the set of operations that can be applied to it. For this reason, main types are built into 
Python syntax. Instead, you must call the built-in open function to create a file object.

>> What does immutable mean and what three types of Python core data types are considered immutable?
An immutable data type is a type of object which cannot be modified after its creation. Numbers, strings, and tuples in Python fall into this 
category. Although you cannot modify an immutable object in place, you can always create a new one by running an expression.

>> What does sequence mean and which three types of data fall into this category?
A sequence data type is a collection of objects ordered by a specific position. In Python, Strings, lists, and tuples are the data types based 
on sequences. The Sequences share common sequence operations, such as indexing, concatenation, and slicing, but also have type-specific method calls.

>> What does mapping mean and what kind of data type is based on mapping?
The term mapping refers to an object that maps keys to associated values. The Python dictionary is the only type of mapping in the base typeset. 
Mappings do not maintain any left-to-right position order; they support access to stored data by key, as well as type-specific method calls.

>> What is polymorphism and why should you care?
Polymorphism means that the meaning of an operation (like a+) depends on the objects being operated. This turns out to be a key idea behind good 
use of Python, not coercing code to specific types makes that code automatically applied to many types.

                                              
                                              
                                              MCQ Type Question
1. What is the type of the following: 1?
A) float
B) int
C) str
                                                                                                                                    Answer: int
                                                                                 Explanation: As there is no decimal, the number is of type int.
2. What is the type of the following "7.1"?
A) float
B) int
C) str
                                                                                                                                    Answer: str
                                                                                                              Explanation: The type is a string.
3. What is the result of the following code segment: int (12.3)?
A) 12.3
B) 12
C) 13
                                                                                                                                     Answer: 12
                                                                      Explanation: In Python, if you cast a float to an integer, the conversion 
                                                                                                                          truncates toward zero.
4. What is the result of the following code segment: int (True)
A) 1
B) 0
C) error
                                                                                                                                      Answer: 1
                                                                            Explanation: When you cast a Boolean True to an integer you get a 1.
5. What do you call a value that doesn’t have decimal values?
A) A number
B) An integer
C) A string
                                                                                                                             Answer: An integer
6. What do you call a value that does have decimal values?
A) A float
B) A number
C) An integer
                                                                                                                                Answer: A float
7. What data type can only have either a value of True or False?
A) A string
B) A Boolean
C) An integer
                                                                                                                              Answer: A Boolean
8. What code would turn the string “1” into an integer?
A) str(1)
B) int("1")
C) float ("1")
                                                                                                                               Answer: int("1")
9. What character begins a single-line comment?
A)'''
B) //
C) #
                                                                                                                                      Answer: #
10. What do we call it when we convert from one data type to another?
A) casting
B) converting
C) changing
                                                                                                                                Answer: casting
11. What is the datatype of np.nan?
A) int
B) float
C) str
D) None
                                                                                                                                  Answer: float
12. Which of the following numbers is NOT a float?
A) 1.5
B) 2.333333
C) 0.0
D) 0
                                                                                                                                      Answer: 0
                                                                                    Explanation:0 on its own is an int. 0.0 however, is a float.
13. What values can the Boolean data type hold?
A) Integers, fractions, complex numbers
B) Unicode characters
C) True or False values
D) Any other data type
                                                                                                                    Answer: True or False values
14. What does it mean that Python is a dynamically-typed language?
A) Variables in python can implicitly change to other types when comparing. For example, you can compare the string "2" and the number 2 using ==.
B) Python variables can be assigned to different types and change types at will.
C) Python is a more efficient language than C++
D) All of the above
                                                           Answer: Python variables can be assigned to different types and changes types at will.
                                                                         Explanation: Dynamic typing just refers to the ability for variables to 
                                                                                                flexibly learn their types during the assignment.

15. Which of the following Python objects is immutable?
A) set
B) dict
C) list
D) str
                                                                                                                                       Ans: str
16. What would be the result of executing the following code? print(True*2)
A) TrueTrue
B) True True
C) 2
D) Syntax Error
                                                                                                                                        Ans: 2
17. After executing the following line of code, what would be the the data type of poll_data: poll_data = 7,
A) int
B) list
C) tuple
D) dict
                                                                                                                                    Ans: tuple
18. Which of the following Python's built-in functions returns the type of the object that was passed to it as a single argument?
A) type( )
B) datatype( )
C) objtype( )
D) object( )
                                                                                                                                  Ans: type()
19. Which of the following statements, when executed, raises the TypeError?
A) dict(range(9))
B) set(range(9))
C) list(range(9))
D) tuple(range(9))
                                                                                                                          Ans: dict(range(9))
20. After executing the following line of code, what would be the data type of obj_data: obj_data = ( )
a) set
b) dict
c) tuple
d) list
                                                                                                                                  Ans: tuple


